README.md, before:

# thornode-telegram-bot ⚡🤖
A telegram bot to monitor the status of THORNodes.

If you have questions feel free to open a github issue or contact us in our Telegram Channel https://t.me/block42_crypto!

## Requirements
* Telegram
* Docker (if you want to run with docker or docker-compose)
* Docker Compose (if you want to run with docker-compose)
* Python3 (if you want to run without docker)

## Quickstart

Open `variables.env` file and set
- `TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN` to your Telegram Bot Token obtained from BotFather.
- `NETWORK_TYPE` to either `TESTNET` or `CHAOSNET`.
- `BINANCE_NODE_IP` to any Binance Node IP you want to monitor (or `localhost`).
Leave it empty or remove it to not monitor a Binance Node.
- `ADMIN_USER_IDS` to a list of Telegram User IDs that are permissioned to access the Admin Area.

Install `docker` and `docker-compose` and run:

```
docker-compose up -d
```

## Steps to run everything yourself
* [Install dependencies](#install-dependencies)
* [Create Telegram bot token via BotFather](#create-telegram-bot-token-via-botfather)
* [Set environment variables](#set-environment-variables)
* [Start the bot](#start-the-bot)
* [Run and test the bot](#run-and-test-the-bot)
* [Production](#production)
  * [Docker Standalone](#docker-standalone)
    * [Healthcheck](#healthcheck)
  * [Docker Compose](#docker-compose)
* [Testing](#testing)

## [Install dependencies](#install-dependencies)
Install all required dependencies via: `pip install -r requirements.txt`

## [Create Telegram bot token via BotFather](#create-telegram-bot-token-via-botfather)
Start a Telegram chat with [BotFather](https://t.me/BotFather) and click `start`.

Then send `/newbot` in the chat, and follow the given steps to create a new telegram token. Save this token, you will need it in a second.

## [Set environment variables](#set-environment-variables)
Set the telegram bot token you just created as an environment variable: `TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN`

```
export TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN=XXX
```
---
Set the network you want to monitor:
```
export NETWORK_TYPE=XXX
```
You can set it to `TESTNET` or `CHAOSNET`. If you leave this empty or write it wrong, testnet will be 
monitored by default.
---

If you have a Binance Node IP that you want to monitor, you can set `BINANCE_NODE_IP` to this 
IP. Set it to `localhost` if the Binance Node runs on the same machine as the Telegram Bot.

**Leave this environment variable empty or don't even set it to not do any Binance Node monitoring.**

```
export BINANCE_NODE_IP=3.228.22.197
```
---
Next set Telegram User IDs that are permissioned to access the Admin Area in the `ADMIN_USER_IDS` environment variable.
Leave the default dummy values if you do not intend to use the Admin Area.

To find out your Telegram, open your Telegram Client, and search for the Telegram Bot `@userinfobot`.
Ensure that this is a Bot and not a Channel and has exactly the handle `@userinfobot`, as there
are a lot of channels and bots with similar names.
Start this Bot and it returns you your User ID that you need to export in `ADMIN_USER_IDS`.

If you enter multiple User IDs, make sure to separate the IDs with `,` i.e. a comma.
```
export ADMIN_USER_IDS=12345,56789,42424
```
---
Finally, if you want test the Thornode Telegram Bot with data from your local machine, you
need to set the debug environment variable:
```
export DEBUG=True
```
The DEBUG flag set to True will run a local web server as a separate process. 
This way the telegram bot can access the local files `nodeaccounts.json` and `status.json`
in the `test/` folder. Verify that Python is available via command `python3` in your environment.
Furthermore, the server mocks a few Thorchain specific endpoints, for this reason please make sure that the ports: 
* `localhost:26657`
* `localhost:8080`

are not busy on your machine. Otherwise, mock server won't start.


To test whether the bot actually notifies you about changes, the data the bot is querying needs to change. 
You can simulate that by manually editing `test/nodeaccounts.json`, `test/status.json` and `test/midgard.json`.

Furthermore in DEBUG mode a separate process runs `increase_block_height.py` which artificially increases
the block height so that there are no notifications that the block height got stuck.

---
If you are using a Jetbrains IDE (e.g. Pycharm), you can set these environment variables for your run 
configuration which is very convenient for development 
(see: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/42708389/how-to-set-environment-variables-in-pycharm).


## [Start the bot](#start-the-bot)
Start the bot via:

```
python3 thornode_bot.py
```

Make sure that you see a message in the console which indicates that the bot is running.

## [Run and test the bot](#run-and-test-the-bot)
When you created the telegram bot token via BotFather, you gave your bot a certain name (e.g. `thornode_bot`). Now search for this name in Telegram, open the chat and hit start!

At this point, you can play with the bot, see what it does and check that everything works fine!

The bot persistents all data, which means it stores its chat data in the file `storage/session.data`.  Once you stop and restart the bot, everything should continue as if the bot was never stopped.

If you want to reset your bot's data, simply delete the file `session.data` in the `storage` directory before startup.

## [Production](#production)
In production you do not want to use mock data from the local endpoint but real network data. 
To get real data just set `DEBUG=False` and all other environment variables as 
described in the 'Set environment variables' section.
If you're using docker-compose to run this Bot, modify the existing variables in `variables.env` file (No need to
set DEBUG as there's no DEBUG mode in the docker version). 

### [Docker Standalone](#docker-standalone)
To run the bot as a docker container, make sure you have docker installed (see: https://docs.docker.com/get-docker).

Navigate to the root directory of this repository and execute the following commands:

Build the docker image as described in the `Dockerfile`:

```
docker build -t thornode-bot .
```

To make the bot's data persistent, you need to create a docker volume. If the bot crashes or restarts the volume won't be affected and keeps all the session data:

```
docker volume create thornode-bot-volume
```

Finally run the docker container:

```
docker run --env TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN=XXX --env BINANCE_NODE_IP=XXX -v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock --mount source=thornode-bot-volume,target=/storage thornode-bot
```

Set the `--env TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN` flag to your telegram bot token. 

Set the `--env NETWORK_TYPE` flag to the network you want to monitor (`TESTNET` or `CHAOSNET` while 
the former is the default).

Set the `--env BINANCE_NODE_IP` flag to an IP of a running Binance Node, or to `localhost` if Telegram Bot and Binance
Node run on the same machine.
Leave this empty i.e. `--env BINANCE_NODE_IP=` or remove it to not do any Binance monitoring.

The `-v` argument passes the dockersocket to the container so that we can restart docker containers from
inside the Telegram Bot.

Finally, the `--mount` flag tells docker to mount our previously created volume in the directory `storage`. 
This is the directory where your bot saves and retrieves the `session.data` file.

*Please note that as docker is intended for production,
there is not the possibility for the `DEBUG` mode when using docker.*


#### [Healthcheck](#healthcheck)
There is a health check in the Dockerfile that runs the `healthcheck.py` file.
The script assures that `thornode_bot.py` is periodically updating the `health.check` file.

If the docker health check fails, the docker container is marked as "unhealthy". 
However, when using docker standalone (without docker compose or docker swarm) this doesn't do anything.
To restart unhealthy containers, we have to use the autoheal image https://hub.docker.com/r/willfarrell/autoheal/ .

To make sure a potentially unhealthy thorbot_node container is restarted, run the autoheal container alongside the
thornode_bot container:
```
docker run -d --name autoheal --restart=always -v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock willfarrell/autoheal
```

### [Docker Compose](#docker-compose)
The explained steps in the Docker Standalone section are conveniently bundled into a
`docker-compose.yaml` file.

First, as before, you need to set the right values in the `variables.env` file for `TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN`, 
`BINANCE_NODE_IP` and `ADMIN_USER_IDS`

If you don't want to spin up the official docker image from our dockerhub, open 
`docker-compose.yaml` and comment out the line `image: "block42blockchaincompany/thornode_bot:latest"`
and comment in the line `build: .`.

Finally, start the Thornode Telegram Bot with:
```
docker-compose up -d
```

---

If you have problems running 'docker-compose up' while using a VPN, 
try to this:
- First run in your console
```
docker network create vpnworkaround --subnet 10.0.1.0/24
```
* Then comment in the networks configuration in `docker-compose.yaml`
```
networks:
  default:
    external:
      name: vpnworkaround
```
* Run again in your terminal
```
docker-compose up -d
```

This solution is taken from https://github.com/docker/for-linux/issues/418#issuecomment-491323611



## [Testing](#testing)
To test the Thornode Bot, you need to impersonate your own Telegram Client programmatically.

To do that, you need to obtain your API ID and API hash by creating a 
telegram application that uses your user identity on https://my.telegram.org .
Simply login in with your phone number that is registered on telegram, 
then choose any application (we chose Android) and follow the steps. 

Once you get access to api_id and api_hash, save them in the Environment variables
`TELEGRAM_API_ID` and `TELEGRAM_API_HASH` respectively.
Also save the name of your Telegram Bot without the preceding `@` 
in the `TELEGRAM_BOT_ID` environment variable (e.g. if your bot is named 
`@thornode_test_bot`, save `thornode_test_bot` in `TELEGRAM_BOT_ID`).

You also need to have set the `TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN` environment variable with your 
telegram bot token, set `ADMIN_USER_IDS` with permissioned IDs and
set `DEBUG=True` as explained in previous sections.
If you want to test the restarting of docker containers, 
do not forget to start at least one container on your system.

Keep in mind that the test always deletes the `session.data` file inside `storage/`
in order to have fresh starts for every integration test. If you wish to keep your
persistent data, don't run the integration test or comment out 
the line `os.remove("../storage/session.data")` in integration_test.py

To run the test open the `test/` folder in your terminal and run
```
python3 integration_test.py
```

The test should endure several minutes.
Every command succeded if you see `-----ALL TESTS PASSED-----` at the end.

Commit message:

Feature/improve testing suite (#74)
* rewrote to unittest class

* sign in telegram session string

* testing suite working sweet

* now also thorbot has his unittesting suite

* deleted old integration_test.py

* adjust according to PR review

README.md, after:

# thornode-telegram-bot ⚡🤖
A telegram bot to monitor the status of THORNodes.

If you have questions feel free to open a github issue or contact us in our Telegram Channel https://t.me/block42_crypto!

## Requirements
* Telegram
* Docker (if you want to run with docker or docker-compose)
* Docker Compose (if you want to run with docker-compose)
* Python3 (if you want to run without docker)

## Quickstart

Open `variables.env` file and set
- `TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN` to your Telegram Bot Token obtained from BotFather.
- `NETWORK_TYPE` to either `TESTNET` or `CHAOSNET`.
- `BINANCE_NODE_IP` to any Binance Node IP you want to monitor (or `localhost`).
Leave it empty or remove it to not monitor a Binance Node.
- `ADMIN_USER_IDS` to a list of Telegram User IDs that are permissioned to access the Admin Area.

Install `docker` and `docker-compose` and run:

```
docker-compose up -d
```

## Steps to run everything yourself
* [Install dependencies](#install-dependencies)
* [Create Telegram bot token via BotFather](#create-telegram-bot-token-via-botfather)
* [Set environment variables](#set-environment-variables)
* [Start the bot](#start-the-bot)
* [Run and test the bot](#run-and-test-the-bot)
* [Production](#production)
  * [Docker Standalone](#docker-standalone)
    * [Healthcheck](#healthcheck)
  * [Docker Compose](#docker-compose)
* [Testing](#testing)

## [Install dependencies](#install-dependencies)
Install all required dependencies via: `pip install -r requirements.txt`

## [Create Telegram bot token via BotFather](#create-telegram-bot-token-via-botfather)
Start a Telegram chat with [BotFather](https://t.me/BotFather) and click `start`.

Then send `/newbot` in the chat, and follow the given steps to create a new telegram token. Save this token, you will need it in a second.

## [Set environment variables](#set-environment-variables)
Set the telegram bot token you just created as an environment variable: `TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN`

```
export TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN=XXX
```
---
Set the network you want to monitor:
```
export NETWORK_TYPE=XXX
```
You can set it to `TESTNET` or `CHAOSNET`. If you leave this empty or write it wrong, testnet will be 
monitored by default.
---

If you have a Binance Node IP that you want to monitor, you can set `BINANCE_NODE_IP` to this 
IP. Set it to `localhost` if the Binance Node runs on the same machine as the Telegram Bot.

**Leave this environment variable empty or don't even set it to not do any Binance Node monitoring.**

```
export BINANCE_NODE_IP=3.228.22.197
```
---
Next set Telegram User IDs that are permissioned to access the Admin Area in the `ADMIN_USER_IDS` environment variable.
Leave the default dummy values if you do not intend to use the Admin Area.

To find out your Telegram, open your Telegram Client, and search for the Telegram Bot `@userinfobot`.
Ensure that this is a Bot and not a Channel and has exactly the handle `@userinfobot`, as there
are a lot of channels and bots with similar names.
Start this Bot and it returns you your User ID that you need to export in `ADMIN_USER_IDS`.

If you enter multiple User IDs, make sure to separate the IDs with `,` i.e. a comma.
```
export ADMIN_USER_IDS=12345,56789,42424
```
---
Finally, if you want test the Thornode Telegram Bot with data from your local machine, you
need to set the debug environment variable:
```
export DEBUG=True
```
The DEBUG flag set to True will run a local web server as a separate process. 
This way the telegram bot can access the local files `nodeaccounts.json` and `status.json`
in the `test/` folder. Verify that Python is available via command `python3` in your environment.
Furthermore, the server mocks a few Thorchain specific endpoints, for this reason please make sure that the ports: 
* `localhost:26657`
* `localhost:8080`

are not busy on your machine. Otherwise, mock server won't start.


To test whether the bot actually notifies you about changes, the data the bot is querying needs to change. 
You can simulate that by manually editing `test/nodeaccounts.json`, `test/status.json` and `test/midgard.json`.

Furthermore in DEBUG mode a separate process runs `increase_block_height.py` which artificially increases
the block height so that there are no notifications that the block height got stuck.

---
If you are using a Jetbrains IDE (e.g. Pycharm), you can set these environment variables for your run 
configuration which is very convenient for development 
(see: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/42708389/how-to-set-environment-variables-in-pycharm).


## [Start the bot](#start-the-bot)
Start the bot via:

```
python3 thornode_bot.py
```

Make sure that you see a message in the console which indicates that the bot is running.

## [Run and test the bot](#run-and-test-the-bot)
When you created the telegram bot token via BotFather, you gave your bot a certain name (e.g. `thornode_bot`). Now search for this name in Telegram, open the chat and hit start!

At this point, you can play with the bot, see what it does and check that everything works fine!

The bot persistents all data, which means it stores its chat data in the file `storage/session.data`.  Once you stop and restart the bot, everything should continue as if the bot was never stopped.

If you want to reset your bot's data, simply delete the file `session.data` in the `storage` directory before startup.

## [Production](#production)
In production you do not want to use mock data from the local endpoint but real network data. 
To get real data just set `DEBUG=False` and all other environment variables as 
described in the 'Set environment variables' section.
If you're using docker-compose to run this Bot, modify the existing variables in `variables.env` file (No need to
set DEBUG as there's no DEBUG mode in the docker version). 

### [Docker Standalone](#docker-standalone)
To run the bot as a docker container, make sure you have docker installed (see: https://docs.docker.com/get-docker).

Navigate to the root directory of this repository and execute the following commands:

Build the docker image as described in the `Dockerfile`:

```
docker build -t thornode-bot .
```

To make the bot's data persistent, you need to create a docker volume. If the bot crashes or restarts the volume won't be affected and keeps all the session data:

```
docker volume create thornode-bot-volume
```

Finally run the docker container:

```
docker run --env TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN=XXX --env BINANCE_NODE_IP=XXX -v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock --mount source=thornode-bot-volume,target=/storage thornode-bot
```

Set the `--env TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN` flag to your telegram bot token. 

Set the `--env NETWORK_TYPE` flag to the network you want to monitor (`TESTNET` or `CHAOSNET` while 
the former is the default).

Set the `--env BINANCE_NODE_IP` flag to an IP of a running Binance Node, or to `localhost` if Telegram Bot and Binance
Node run on the same machine.
Leave this empty i.e. `--env BINANCE_NODE_IP=` or remove it to not do any Binance monitoring.

The `-v` argument passes the dockersocket to the container so that we can restart docker containers from
inside the Telegram Bot.

Finally, the `--mount` flag tells docker to mount our previously created volume in the directory `storage`. 
This is the directory where your bot saves and retrieves the `session.data` file.

*Please note that as docker is intended for production,
there is not the possibility for the `DEBUG` mode when using docker.*


#### [Healthcheck](#healthcheck)
There is a health check in the Dockerfile that runs the `healthcheck.py` file.
The script assures that `thornode_bot.py` is periodically updating the `health.check` file.

If the docker health check fails, the docker container is marked as "unhealthy". 
However, when using docker standalone (without docker compose or docker swarm) this doesn't do anything.
To restart unhealthy containers, we have to use the autoheal image https://hub.docker.com/r/willfarrell/autoheal/ .

To make sure a potentially unhealthy thorbot_node container is restarted, run the autoheal container alongside the
thornode_bot container:
```
docker run -d --name autoheal --restart=always -v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock willfarrell/autoheal
```

### [Docker Compose](#docker-compose)
The explained steps in the Docker Standalone section are conveniently bundled into a
`docker-compose.yaml` file.

First, as before, you need to set the right values in the `variables.env` file for `TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN`, 
`BINANCE_NODE_IP` and `ADMIN_USER_IDS`

If you don't want to spin up the official docker image from our dockerhub, open 
`docker-compose.yaml` and comment out the line `image: "block42blockchaincompany/thornode_bot:latest"`
and comment in the line `build: .`.

Finally, start the Thornode Telegram Bot with:
```
docker-compose up -d
```

---

If you have problems running 'docker-compose up' while using a VPN, 
try to this:
- First run in your console
```
docker network create vpnworkaround --subnet 10.0.1.0/24
```
* Then comment in the networks configuration in `docker-compose.yaml`
```
networks:
  default:
    external:
      name: vpnworkaround
```
* Run again in your terminal
```
docker-compose up -d
```

This solution is taken from https://github.com/docker/for-linux/issues/418#issuecomment-491323611



## [Testing](#testing)
To test the Thornode Bot, you need to impersonate your own Telegram Client programmatically.

To do that, you need to obtain your API ID and API hash by creating a 
telegram application that uses your user identity on https://my.telegram.org .
Simply login in with your phone number that is registered on telegram, 
then choose any application (we chose Android) and follow the steps. 

Afterwards run `python3 test/sign_in_telegram.py`. This asks
you to put in your phone number, verifies your telegram client and creates the verification
file `test/telegram_session.string`. This file is needed by the testing suite
to impersonate your telegram client.

Once you get access to api_id and api_hash, save them in the Environment variables
`TELEGRAM_API_ID` and `TELEGRAM_API_HASH` respectively.
Also save the name of your Telegram Bot without the preceding `@` 
in the `TELEGRAM_BOT_ID` environment variable (e.g. if your bot is named 
`@thornode_test_bot`, save `thornode_test_bot` in `TELEGRAM_BOT_ID`).

You also need to have set the `TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN` environment variable with your 
telegram bot token, set `ADMIN_USER_IDS` with permissioned IDs and
set `DEBUG=True` as explained in previous sections.
If you want to test the restarting of docker containers, 
do not forget to start at least one container on your system.

Keep in mind that the test always deletes the `session.data` file inside `storage/`
in order to have fresh starts for every integration test. If you wish to keep your
persistent data, don't run the integration test or comment out 
the line `os.remove("../storage/session.data")` in integration_test.py

To run the test open the `test/` folder in your terminal and run
```
python3 integration_test.py
```

The test should endure several minutes.
Every command succeded if you see `-----ALL TESTS PASSED-----` at the end.
